# pandas_challenge
## PyCity Schools Analysis

### Summary of the analysis

  The current analysis was at the capacity of a Chief Data Scientist to make strategic decisions regarding future school budgets and priorities in a local government area. The first task was to  analyse the area-wide standardised test results. Data sheets containing every student's maths and reading scores, as well as various information on the schools they attend, were provided. The main task was to aggregate the data to showcase obvious trends in school performance.

* The first step of the analysis was carried out by aggregating the data to create a summary list of the number of schools, total number of students, budget, math scores and reading scores. This provides an overview of the data.

* The second part was an analysis of the performance of each school separately. Which were then sorted according to the percentage of overall performance.

* The following analysis contained **performance comparison by year level**. Student performance was analyzed based on their year level (grade), and average math and reading scores were calculated for each grade level.

* Leading to the **analysis by the spending range**. The schools were categorised into spending ranges per student and the average math and reading scores compared with the passing rates.

* This part of the analysis was **school performance against school size**. Schools were categorized into small, medium, and large sizes based on total student count, and the average math and reading scores as well as the passing rates were calculated for each school size category.


## Skills Acquired

-   Pandas for data manipulation and analysis
-   Jupyter Notebook for creating and running Python scripts
-   Data aggregation and summarization
-   Statistical analysis and calculation of key metrics
-   Data visualization and reporting
-   Git and GitHub/GitLab workflow
-   Handling large datasets efficiently
-   Creating and interpreting various data summaries and trends

## References

Data generated by  [Mockaroo, LLCLinks to an external site.](https://mockaroo.com/), (2022). Realistic Data Generator. Data for this dataset was generated by edX Boot Camps LLC, and is intended for educational purposes only.  
